#summary Getting Started
= Introduction =

Every Paget application starts by deriving a class from PAGET_UriSpace. This is the main dispatch point for requests in the application. It's responsible for identifying the resources identified by a group of URIs and the application can use it to specify the behaviour of their resources. 

Resources are split into three categories: documents that can be served straight up, abstract resources and descriptions of abstract resources. The last two are where the interesting bits of Paget lie. An application will typically override the get_description method to return a custom description derived from PAGET_ResourceDescription. This class does all the hard work of finding triples about the requested abstract resource.

A class derived from ResourceDescription can override several methods to customise the RDF returned:

== get_resources ==
This method returns an array of resource URIs that the description will consider when generating its RDF. The default behaviour is simply to chop the file extension off of the description’s URI. So, the description at http://iandavis.com/id/me.rdf will have a resource of http://iandavis.com/id/me.

== get_generators ==
This returns a list of generators that seed the triples in the descrpition. The ResourceDescription class calls each generator’s add_triples method once for each resource returned by the get_resources method. Paget has some pre-defined generators that can read triples from a local file or from a platform store. The default behaviour is to do nothing.

== get_augmentors ==
This returns a list of augmentors that add triples to the description. Paget comes with a few built-in augmentors to augment with RDF from a platform store, annotate properties with human readable labels and even do some limited inferencing. By default the simple property labeller is returned as an augmentor.

== get_label ==
This just calculates a sensible label for the description that could be used in the title of a web page or a link. The default behaviour is to look for an rdfs:label, dc:title or foaf:name for the primary resource in the description (which is the first one returned by get_resources). Applications could override this to use whatever heuristics make sense for their data.

== get ==
    This is the dispatch point for HTTP GET requests. At a later date I hope to handle other methods too, but for now Paget is a read only system
